---
size: 11pt
sig:
 include: yes
 sign: yes
 post: yes
cc:
---

\today

*RE: Request for graduate funding from CUNIL*

**Lab Description**

The Narrative Intelligence Lab draws from Columbia's expertise in literary theory, sociology
of knowledge, linguistics, and computation to study how stories shape our personal and shared
beliefs. Founded in 2025, the group is led by Dennis Yi Tenen, Associate Professor of English
and Comparative Literature at Columbia University.

The support from the department would help jump-start the lab's research activities, with an
emphasis on three related areas:

1. Collective cognition: thinking, writing, and creating in groups.

2. Influence (text reuse, plagiarism in the age of AI, schematic and otherwise algorithmic
modes of cultural/epistemic production).

3. Group thought and communal storytelling including expert discourse, conspiracy theory,
disinformation, and propaganda.

The "laboratory" aspect of the group's work indicates (a) a concerted effort to move beyond the
single authorship model in the humanities, and (b) a preference for mixed methods, combining
qualitative and quantitative modalities.

To achieve these goals, the lab actively seeks to promote targeted collaboration between
faculty, also involving graduate and undergraduate researchers, toward specific publishable
outcomes.

For the purposes of this request, consider that a significant barrier to collaboration lies in
the relative lack of formal training in quantitative or qualitative methods in the humanities.
Consequently, I believe an effective use of funding to lie in the training opportunities for
our graduate students, above those available at Columbia.

**2025 Summer Program at SKKU, Seoul**

An example of such an opportunity involves a summer program in mixed methods at SKKU ---
Sungkyunkwan University in Seoul, Korea (Sam Oh, Communications) in partnership with Harvard
(Martin Puchner, English) and University of Toronto (Javed Mustafa, Communications), with a
pilot slated for the Summer of 2025. It is my hope for this program to be held yearly, rotating
between institutions, and offering specific research "micro-certifications" (in linguistics,
natural language processing, mapping, field work, and similar) that could be highlighted
prominently in our graduate student portfolios, broadening the spectrum of methodological
possibilities along with improving their job prospect, academically or otherwise.

The program at SKKU will run from June 30th to July 25, giving students the opportunity to take
at least two intensive classes (2hr of instruction each, 4 times a week + Friday lab). For
the Summer of 2025 I am slated to teach a class titled "Language and Computation," with Liang
Zhao (Wuhan University) teaching "Python for Social Computing" and Martin Puchner teaching
"Human Creativity in the Age of AI." The full program can be found at the following address:
https://summer.skku.edu/summer/program

**Request for Funding**

In preparation for the Summer of 2025, I have secured a tuition waiver at SKKU. However, the cost of travel
and lodging for our students remains prohibitive. For this reason, I would like to offer 2-3
travel bursaries, in the amount of $3,000 available to our graduate students. Julia Walton and
several others have expressed initial interest. Following the success (and limitations) of
the summer program in 2025, I plan to explore the possibility of holding the summer institute
domestically, at Columbia or at one of the partner institutions (Harvard, Toronto), on a more
permanent basis and with a better defined funding and revenue structure.
